One day as Little Jack Rabbit was hopping home to the Old Bramble Patch,
he came across something sweet. And what do you suppose it was? Why, a
big tin pail half full of lollypop juice, standing under a little spout
that was driven into a yellow lollypop tree.

"My, but it tastes good," he said, holding his mouth under the spout to
let the sap drip onto his little red tongue. "I wish I had some
buckwheat cakes with me."

But he didn't, so he took a little glass bottle out of his knapsack and
filled it with the sweet juice.

But, oh dear me! Just then he heard a deep growl.

"Oh dear and oh dear!" cried Little Jack Rabbit, giving a hop to one
side to hide behind an old stump.

And then the deep growling voice said again, quick as a wink:

"Who's stealing my lollypop sap?"

"Nobody," answered the little rabbit, peeking out from behind the old
stump. And then, would you believe it, he hopped out all the way, for
there stood the Big Brown Bear.

"I'll excuse you this time," said that friendly old bear with a grin.
"Come into my cave and see all the lollypops I've made from the sap of
the lollypop tree."

Well, there certainly were lots and lots of little lollypops piled on
the shelves.

"Do you make buckwheat cakes?" asked the little rabbit.

"Every morning," answered the Big Brown Bear, "and I just drown 'em in
lollypop syrup!"

The little rabbit smacked his lips.

"If you'll spend the night, I'll give you buckwheat cakes for
breakfast," said the Big Brown Bear.

And Little Jack Rabbit did, and ate so many cakes the next morning that
he couldn't button up his jacket until the afternoon, when he set out
once more for the Old Bramble Patch.

[Illustration: Little Jack Ate so Many Cakes That He Could Not Button
His Jacket.]

Well, as he was hopping along, all of a sudden, just like that, he heard
some one singing:

    "Little Jack Rabbit goes clippity, clop;
    Little Bill Bunny goes lippity, lop;
    Little Chip Chipmunk goes jumpity, jump,
    Over the hollow, moss-covered stump."

"Why, hello, Chippy Chipmunk!" cried Little Jack Rabbit, sitting up on
his hind legs. "What are you doing out here? Is it time for you to come
out of your nice warm burrow?"

"I guess so," answered the little chipmunk. "Old Mr. Groundhog says so,
and he ought to know."

"Come over," said the little rabbit, taking the bottle of syrup out of
his pocket. "Do you want to taste something you'd suppose was lollypop
juice? Open your mouth and shut your eyes and I'll give you the sweetest
kind of surprise."

But, oh dear me. Little Jack Rabbit dropped the cork by mistake in the
little chipmunk's mouth!

(Did you ever try to get a cork out of a bottle after it had slipped
'way down inside? Well, then, just think what a time we'll have with
this little chipmunk.)




DR. HERON


"What was that?" asked the little chipmunk as he swallowed the cork.
But, goodness me, Little Jack Rabbit was too frightened to answer. He
let the glass bottle drop to the ground, smashing it all to smithereens.

"The maple syrup was fine," went on Chippy Chipmunk, "but what was that
hard little lump I swallowed?"

"Oh, please don't swell up and bust!" begged the little rabbit. "Mother
says if you swallow a cork it will swell and swell inside you until you
can't stand it any longer."

"What's that?" asked the little chipmunk. "Did I swallow a cork?"

"Yes, you did," sobbed Little Jack Rabbit. "And it's all my fault. I let
it drop into your mouth by mistake. Of course, you didn't see it. How
could you, with your eyes shut?"

Chippy Chipmunk was now thoroughly frightened. "You've murdered me,
that's what you've done, Little Jack Rabbit. Oh, what shall I do?"

Just then who should come along but Dr. Heron. He had very long legs and
a very long bill. All doctors have very long bills, otherwise it
wouldn't pay to be a doctor.

"What's the trouble?" he asked, opening his little black bag. "Anybody
sick?"

"I'm going to be," cried Chippy Chipmunk. "Oh, dear Dr. Heron, don't let
me die! Please don't!"

"Stuff and nonsense! Don't talk like that!" said the big bird doctor.
"Put out your tongue."

"Can you see the cork?" asked Little Jack Rabbit. The little chipmunk
was just going to ask the same question, but Dr. Heron had hold of his
tongue, so he couldn't.

"See what?" asked the doctor. "What are you talking about?"

"Chippy Chipmunk swallowed a cork," said Little Jack Rabbit. "And he'll
swell up and bust in just a few minutes. Oh, dear, oh, dear. And it's
all my fault."

"Well, I do see something," said Dr. Heron, squinting down the little
chipmunk's throat. "My, but it's a long way down." And Dr. Heron looked
very serious, very serious indeed.

    "Now sit still and don't you sneeze.
    Open wider, if you please;
    Maybe I can pull it out
    If you do not cry or pout."

Then he pushed down his long thin bill and pulled out the cork.

"Oh joy!" cried Chippy Chipmunk as soon as Dr. Heron let go of his
tongue.

"I usually charge ten little fishes for an operation like this, but,
seeing it's you, and I didn't have to come all the way over to your
house, I'll ask only five," said the kind bird doctor.

When Little Jack Rabbit heard this he winked his tail and wagged his
nose at the chipmunk, and the first thing you know away they went,
leaving the doctor's bill unpaid, which wasn't a very nice thing to do.
No indeed.

    When we are well the doctor's bill
    Is never even thought of, till
    Old Mr. Malady comes by
    With trembling hand and tearful eye.

    We always should be square and true,
    And pay our bills when they are due.
    Perhaps then Mr. Malady
    Will never bother you and me.




THE SONG OF PROMISE


    Wintertime, you'll soon be going,
    With your cold winds, blowing, blowing,
    And your gray clouds snowing, snowing.

    Soon the warm South Wind will sing,
    And the Blue Bells sweetly ring,--
    Then we'll know it's really Spring!

Mr. Merry Sun was up bright and early, and from his blue sky shone down
with cheerful warmth. From his little room in the Old Bramble Patch
Little Jack Rabbit awoke with a sweet song ringing in his ear. What was
it? It sounded so sweet and clear that the little rabbit opened his
window to listen. There it came again, across the Sunny Meadow like a
song of promise. Somehow, it made the little rabbit happy, and jumping
out of bed, he ate his breakfast in a hurry and then hopped over to the
Old Rail Fence.

"Tir-rell-loo, tir-rell-loo!" sounded the music of a bird.

It was a beautiful whistle, clear as a silver bell, and the little
rabbit took a hop, skip and jump, for somehow he felt happier than he
had for a long, long time.

At first he thought it might be Jimmy Jay who was whistling. But then,
he never whistled so sweetly as this. So the little rabbit hopped along,
over the dry sodden grass which all winter had been pressed down tight
by the heavy snow drifts, past the Big Chestnut Tree, where Chippy
Chipmunk used to gather nuts, until, by and by, not so very far, he saw
Blue Bird. Yes Sir. He saw the little Messenger of Spring. There he sat
on the top rail of the Old Rail Fence singing away as if his heart were
full of sunshine. And I guess it was, for how could he have sung so
sweetly if it hadn't been?

    "Spring is here, Spring is here,
    I'm the bearer of good cheer.

    Listen to my tale of joy,
    Little white furred Bunny Boy.

    Soon Miss South Wind will be here,
    And the violet will appear.

    Pussy Willow by the brook
    You will find if you but look.

    Tir-rell-loo! Tir-rell-loo.
    I'm the little bird of blue!"

And as the little rabbit looked over the Sunny Meadow it seemed as if
under the warm rays of Mr. Merry Sun that the brown grass turned a
tender green and the trees began to murmur in the wind the half
forgotten song of summer.

"Hurray, Hurrah!" cried the little rabbit, and he hopped away to the Old
Duck Pond to see if Granddaddy Bullfrog had come out of his hiding place
way down in the muddy bottom. But, No Sireemam. Old Granddaddy Bullfrog
wasn't going to catch his death of cold by coming out too soon, neither
was Teddy Turtle. They knew better, for the ice was still floating in
great pieces on the surface of the water and the old mill wheel hadn't
yet begun to turn around.




SPRING IS HERE


    When you first hear welcome news,
    You can hardly keep your shoes
    From running off with both your feet
    And telling every one you meet.

This is just the way little Jack Rabbit felt on seeing Blue Bird, the
sweet-voiced Messenger of Spring. To know that Spring had come, after
the long hard Winter, made the little rabbit almost as happy as if it
were Xmas morning.

"There comes Professor Jim Crow," exclaimed the little rabbit, looking
out from the Old Bramble Patch, and then over the Sunny Meadow fluttered
Redwing and Song Sparrow.

"All the birds will soon be here," laughed the little bunny, hopping out
to the Sunny Meadow to look about him. Pretty soon he heard the merry
whistle of Mr. Meadow Lark.

"Good-by, Little Jack Rabbit!" cried Snow Bunting. "I'm going farther
North. It will soon be too warm for me!"

And then Mr. Meadow Lark whistled, "I'm here! I'm here!" And his yellow
breast shone in the sunlight as bright as a new Lincoln penny!

After that the little rabbit hopped over to the Bubbling Brook, and,
would you believe it, the ice was gone and the sparkling water was
flowing swiftly onward to the deep blue sea!

Oh, how fast the snow was melting. Only along the Old Rail Fence or in
the hollows were patches of dingy whiteness.

Up at the Old Farm the feathered folk strutted about in the warm
sunshine. Even the Weathercock seemed more lively as he turned this way
and that in the gentle breeze.

    "Spring is coming, Spring is here,
    Soon the meadow will be clear
    Of its snowy coat of white
    And the grass will sparkle bright
    With the dandelion and
    All the yellow cowslip band.

"I must tell all my friends that Spring is here," cried the little
rabbit. He just couldn't wait, you see, for them to find it out. He
thought he must be a little four-footed messenger boy bunny and spread
the glad tidings. So away he hopped, clippity, clip, lippity, lip, past
the Barnyard where Cocky Doodle was singing his cock-a-doodle-do song,
and Henny Penny was cackling over her new laid egg.

Ducky Waddles, too, was happy as could be. In a few days he would be
swimming in the Old Duck Pond and standing on his head to gobble up the
little fish that came too near his great big yellow bill.

"Good-by, I'm off to tell the glad news," and away went the little
rabbit. Pretty soon, not so very far, he saw at the edge of the Shady
Forest, on his favorite tree, Professor Jim Crow in his glistening suit
of black feathers.




LITTLE MESSENGER BOY BUNNY


    The Gentle South Wind in the trees
    Is turning buds to tender leaves,
    And down the crystal Bubbling Brook
    The Pussy Willows nod and look
    To see if o'er the meadow green
    The Dandelions can be seen.
    Soon all the flowers will be here
    And Chilly Winter disappear.

Little Jack Rabbit hopped up to the big hollow tree where Peter Possum
and Mrs. Possum had slept all winter with their little baby possums.
"Come out, come out! Spring is here!"

"What's that?" asked Peter Possum, sleepily. "Who's calling?"

"It's me!" laughed Little Jack Rabbit. "Mr. Merry Sun is bright and
warm, and the Pussy Willows are playing with the Cattails by the
Bubbling Brook." And away he hopped, for he couldn't wait another
minute, he was so anxious to spread the good news.

Pretty soon he reached Woody Chuck's front door, and called through the
keyhole, "Spring is here! wake up, wake up!" Woody Chuck yawned and
stretched his legs, and pretty soon he opened the door, but the little
rabbit wasn't there. No siree. He was far away waking up Billy Badger.
And after that he hopped over to stir up Chippy Chipmunk and Billy Coon.
Dear me. That little rabbit was busy, let me tell you. He just couldn't
let anybody find out the good news for himself. He wanted to be the
spring's little messenger boy.

All the while the Little Balmy Breezes had been dancing here and there,
ringing the blue bells, blowing on the little horn-shaped flowers and
whispering to the grasses and ferns.

And Mr. Merry Sun! How he did smile up in his big blue sky.

Mr. North Wind, on his whistling snow horses, had gone up to the North
Pole to tell Santa Claus that everybody had forgotten all about Xmas
Trees, and that Bobbie Redvest was building a nest in the old apple tree
behind the Big Red Barn.

And, goodness me! I almost forgot to mention that the Weathercock had a
new suit of gold paint. Yes, sir! The Kind Farmer had climbed up on a
ladder with a little bottle of gold paint and a brush to make the
Weathercock as bright as a new gold dollar.

Down at the Old Bramble Patch Mrs. Rabbit was housecleaning. The Old Red
Rooster had taken down the storm door and stored it away in the barn. He
had unwound the straw wrappers from the rose bushes and cleared away the
dry leaves from the cellar door. Yes, sir. He was as busy as could be,
for Mrs. Rabbit kept one eye on him all the time and he never even had a
chance to crow except at two o'clock in the morning.




GRANDDADDY BULLFROG


    Now round and round the Mill Wheel turns,
    But all the Winter through
    'Twas tightly bound with icy chains
    Till Mistress South Wind blew.
    Then off it started one bright morn
    To grind the farmer's yellow corn.

Granddaddy Bullfrog seated himself again on the old log to catch a fly
for breakfast. All through the cold weather he had slept in the soft mud
at the bottom of the Old Duck Pond, but now, that Mr. Merry Sun was
shining down so warm and bright from the big blue sky, the old gentleman
frog had kicked out his long legs and swam up to sit once more in his
accustomed place.

But, goodness me! How thin he was. Why, his white waistcoat was all
wrinkled and his pantaloons bagged dreadfully. Yes, sir. They were much
too big for his long thin legs, and Granddaddy Bullfrog at once set to
work to catch a million flies so as to grow nice and fat and jolly by
the good old Summer time.

Teddy Turtle, too, had come up from the soft mud. He knew it was time to
be about, for Gentle Spring has a way of telling all the little people
of the Shady Forest and the Sunny Meadow just when it's time to wake up
and get out in the warm sunshine.

And while Granddaddy Bullfrog quietly caught a dozen flies and Teddy
Turtle crawled up on the bank, the little rabbit shouted:

    "Helloa, helloa! There isn't much snow
    Anywhere to be seen, and the meadow is green.
    Say, Granddaddy Frog, out there on your log,
    Are you glad it is Spring, ting-a-ling, ting-a-ling!"

"There, you've gone and made me lose a fly," said the old gentleman
frog. "But, never mind! I'm glad to see you, little rabbit," and
Granddaddy Bullfrog went "Ker-dunk, ker-chunk," and wiped his spectacles
with a pink silk handkerchief.

Just then from a little pool close to the Old Duck Pond came the sound
of voices. "What's that?" thought the little rabbit, and he hopped over
the marshy ground to look into the little pool. And what do you think he
saw? Why, a lot of dark spots on the water, each one singing a tune.
And, Oh dear me! The little bunny was so surprised that he leaned way
over the water, when, all of a sudden, the little dark spots disappeared
and all he could see were funny little forms swimming away under the
water.

"Ha, ha!" laughed Granddaddy Bullfrog. "They are little singing toads.
Mr. Tree Toad's grandchildren!"

The little rabbit was so surprised that he said nothing. Neither did
Granddaddy Bullfrog until the next story.

RAT-A-TAT-TAT


"Well, well, well," thought the little rabbit, as he hopped away from
the Old Duck Pond, "Granddaddy Bullfrog is a wise old frog." And I guess
the little rabbit was right, for everybody doesn't know that those
little funny singing toads I told you about in the last story are called
Hylas, although everybody knows that some candies are! But it isn't
spelt the same way. Oh dear me, no! But I don't believe Granddaddy
Bullfrog knew that!

And while the little rabbit was hopping along towards the Shady Forest,
he heard a noise like the beating of a drum. So he stopped to listen.
There it came again, rat-a-tat-tat! rat-a-tat-tat! Yes, sir. Those
sounds certainly came from the old orchard. So the little rabbit turned
and hopped along the Old Rail Fence until he came to an old apple tree
just behind the Big Red Barn where the Weathercock lived.

Rat-a-tat-tat! rat-a-tat-tat! "Who can it be?" thought the little
rabbit, and he looked all around, and then, all of a sudden, he saw Red
Head, the Woodpecker, building a new home for himself in the old apple
tree.

Chip, chop, chip, chop, back and forth went the woodpecker's sharp bill,
cutting out the chips from the old apple bough.

My! but it was hard work. The Miller's Boy always grumbled when his
father told him to chop the wood, but Red Head kept right along, happy
as could be. You see, the little people of the wood don't grumble if
they have to work, and let me tell you in the Spring they have lots to
do. Every one is busy making his home. Some are digging holes in the
ground and some are making nests in the trees. But everybody is happy as
the day is long. And the birds sing as they work, for a song helps the
work along. Helps you do your very best, whether it's a hole or nest.
Sing away, and never fret, worry won't keep out the wet. Sing and work
until the sun tells you that the day is done.

Oh, dear. There goes my typewriter making up poetry!

Well, let me see where I was before my typewriter became a poet. Oh,
yes. Red Head, the Woodpecker, was chopping out a little home for
himself in the old apple tree, and Little Jack Rabbit had just
discovered who it was who was making that queer chip-chop noise.

"Haven't got any time to talk," said the busy little woodpecker. "I must
get this house ready for Mrs. Red Head. She says she won't wait another
day," and he started to chop again, so the little rabbit hopped over to
the Sunny Meadow where Mrs. Cow was eating the fresh young grass. Every
now and then she would ring the bell on her collar, and then her little
calf would run up and ask her what she wanted. And Mrs. Cow would rub
her nose over the little calf's ear and whisper: "I only wanted to keep
you from going away too far."




BUSY PEOPLE


    The little Balmy Breezes shook
    The Pussy Willows by the brook
    Until they all began to mew,
    Just like real pussy kittens do.

And this made Mrs. Cow laugh, who, in the story before this, you
remember, had tinkled the little bell she carried on a leather collar
around her neck, to caution her little calf not to run too far away.

Well, just then Little Jack Rabbit came along to tell Mrs. Cow what Red
Head, the Woodpecker, was doing up in the old orchard. "Yes, he's making
a nice little home for Mrs. Red Head," said the little rabbit "Everybody
is working but me. I'm just hopping around doing nothing," and he gave a
great big sigh and scratched his left ear with his right hind foot.

"You're the first person I ever met who longed for work," laughed Mrs.
Cow. "Up at the farm the men are grumbling because they must get up with
Mr. Merry Sun and work all day!"

Just then Jimmy Jay flew by in his beautiful blue coat and white
waistcoat. Now Jimmy Jay is a dreadful tease. He's the biggest tease in
all the Shady Forest. And when he saw the little bunny, he stopped to
ask a question.

"Why don't you build a house for yourself on the Sunny Meadow?"

"I don't need one," answered the little rabbit. "Old Bramble Patch, U.
S. A., is where I live."

"But everybody is building a home," went on Jimmy Jay. "Why don't you
get to work?" and the mischievous little bird picked off a hard round
bud and threw it at the little rabbit. Then off he flew, singing at the
top of his voice:

    "Some folks are so lazy
    They never do a thing,
    But bother everybody
    Who's busy in the Spring."

"I wonder if he means me," thought the little rabbit. "Oh, dear me! I
wonder if he means me!" and this time the little rabbit spoke out loud,
for he felt so badly he just couldn't keep it to himself.

"If he does he isn't telling the truth," said Bobbie Redvest.

"He's a mischief maker," cried another voice, and there stood Timmy
Meadow Mouse. "Don't let him worry you, little rabbit." After that the
little bunny felt ever so much better, for what is nicer than to have
your friends stick up for you in this world, I should like to know, and
he hopped off home to help his mother, who was busy beating the carpets
and putting up the curtains in camphor for the Summer. And after he had
polished the front doorknob and fed the canary, she gave him five carrot
cents and told him he might go down to the Three-in-One Cent Store to
buy a raspberry lollypop.