Towards the end of November, during a thaw, at nine o'clock one morning,
a train on the Warsaw and Petersburg railway was approaching the latter
city at full speed. The morning was so damp and misty that it was only
with great difficulty that the day succeeded in breaking; and it was
impossible to distinguish anything more than a few yards away from the
carriage windows.

Some of the passengers by this particular train were returning from
abroad; but the third-class carriages were the best filled, chiefly with
insignificant persons of various occupations and degrees, picked up at
the different stations nearer town. All of them seemed weary, and
most of them had sleepy eyes and a shivering expression, while their
complexions generally appeared to have taken on the colour of the fog
outside.

When day dawned, two passengers in one of the third-class carriages
found themselves opposite each other. Both were young fellows, both
were rather poorly dressed, both had remarkable faces, and both were
evidently anxious to start a conversation. If they had but known why,
at this particular moment, they were both remarkable persons, they would
undoubtedly have wondered at the strange chance which had set them down
opposite to one another in a third-class carriage of the Warsaw Railway
Company.

One of them was a young fellow of about twenty-seven, not tall, with
black curling hair, and small, grey, fiery eyes. His nose was broad
and flat, and he had high cheek bones; his thin lips were constantly
compressed into an impudent, ironical--it might almost be called a
malicious--smile; but his forehead was high and well formed, and atoned
for a good deal of the ugliness of the lower part of his face. A special
feature of this physiognomy was its death-like pallor, which gave to
the whole man an indescribably emaciated appearance in spite of his hard
look, and at the same time a sort of passionate and suffering expression
which did not harmonize with his impudent, sarcastic smile and
keen, self-satisfied bearing. He wore a large fur--or rather
astrachan--overcoat, which had kept him warm all night, while his
neighbour had been obliged to bear the full severity of a Russian
November night entirely unprepared. His wide sleeveless mantle with a
large cape to it--the sort of cloak one sees upon travellers during the
winter months in Switzerland or North Italy--was by no means adapted to
the long cold journey through Russia, from Eydkuhnen to St. Petersburg.

The wearer of this cloak was a young fellow, also of about twenty-six or
twenty-seven years of age, slightly above the middle height, very fair,
with a thin, pointed and very light coloured beard; his eyes were large
and blue, and had an intent look about them, yet that heavy expression
which some people affirm to be a peculiarity as well as evidence, of an
epileptic subject. His face was decidedly a pleasant one for all that;
refined, but quite colourless, except for the circumstance that at this
moment it was blue with cold. He held a bundle made up of an old faded
silk handkerchief that apparently contained all his travelling wardrobe,
and wore thick shoes and gaiters, his whole appearance being very
un-Russian.

His black-haired neighbour inspected these peculiarities, having nothing
better to do, and at length remarked, with that rude enjoyment of the
discomforts of others which the common classes so often show:

"Cold?"

"Very," said his neighbour, readily, "and this is a thaw, too. Fancy if
it had been a hard frost! I never thought it would be so cold in the old
country. I've grown quite out of the way of it."

"What, been abroad, I suppose?"

"Yes, straight from Switzerland."

"Wheugh! my goodness!" The black-haired young fellow whistled, and then
laughed.

The conversation proceeded. The readiness of the fair-haired young
man in the cloak to answer all his opposite neighbour's questions
was surprising. He seemed to have no suspicion of any impertinence
or inappropriateness in the fact of such questions being put to him.
Replying to them, he made known to the inquirer that he certainly had
been long absent from Russia, more than four years; that he had been
sent abroad for his health; that he had suffered from some strange
nervous malady--a kind of epilepsy, with convulsive spasms. His
interlocutor burst out laughing several times at his answers; and
more than ever, when to the question, "whether he had been cured?" the
patient replied:

"No, they did not cure me."

"Hey! that's it! You stumped up your money for nothing, and we
believe in those fellows, here!" remarked the black-haired individual,
sarcastically.

"Gospel truth, sir, Gospel truth!" exclaimed another passenger, a
shabbily dressed man of about forty, who looked like a clerk, and
possessed a red nose and a very blotchy face. "Gospel truth! All they do
is to get hold of our good Russian money free, gratis, and for nothing."

"Oh, but you're quite wrong in my particular instance," said the Swiss
patient, quietly. "Of course I can't argue the matter, because I
know only my own case; but my doctor gave me money--and he had very
little--to pay my journey back, besides having kept me at his own
expense, while there, for nearly two years."

"Why? Was there no one else to pay for you?" asked the black-haired one.

"No--Mr. Pavlicheff, who had been supporting me there, died a couple
of years ago. I wrote to Mrs. General Epanchin at the time (she is a
distant relative of mine), but she did not answer my letter. And so
eventually I came back."

"And where have you come to?"

"That is--where am I going to stay? I--I really don't quite know yet,
I--"

Both the listeners laughed again.

"I suppose your whole set-up is in that bundle, then?" asked the first.

"I bet anything it is!" exclaimed the red-nosed passenger, with
extreme satisfaction, "and that he has precious little in the luggage
van!--though of course poverty is no crime--we must remember that!"

It appeared that it was indeed as they had surmised. The young fellow
hastened to admit the fact with wonderful readiness.

"Your bundle has some importance, however," continued the clerk, when
they had laughed their fill (it was observable that the subject of their
mirth joined in the laughter when he saw them laughing); "for though I
dare say it is not stuffed full of friedrichs d'or and louis d'or--judge
from your costume and gaiters--still--if you can add to your possessions
such a valuable property as a relation like Mrs. General Epanchin, then
your bundle becomes a significant object at once. That is, of course, if
you really are a relative of Mrs. Epanchin's, and have not made a little
error through--well, absence of mind, which is very common to human
beings; or, say--through a too luxuriant fancy?"

"Oh, you are right again," said the fair-haired traveller, "for I
really am _almost_ wrong when I say she and I are related. She is hardly
a relation at all; so little, in fact, that I was not in the least
surprised to have no answer to my letter. I expected as much."

"H'm! you spent your postage for nothing, then. H'm! you are candid,
however--and that is commendable. H'm! Mrs. Epanchin--oh yes! a most
eminent person. I know her. As for Mr. Pavlicheff, who supported you in
Switzerland, I know him too--at least, if it was Nicolai Andreevitch
of that name? A fine fellow he was--and had a property of four thousand
souls in his day."

"Yes, Nicolai Andreevitch--that was his name," and the young fellow
looked earnestly and with curiosity at the all-knowing gentleman with
the red nose.

This sort of character is met with pretty frequently in a certain class.
They are people who know everyone--that is, they know where a man is
employed, what his salary is, whom he knows, whom he married, what money
his wife had, who are his cousins, and second cousins, etc., etc. These
men generally have about a hundred pounds a year to live on, and they
spend their whole time and talents in the amassing of this style of
knowledge, which they reduce--or raise--to the standard of a science.

During the latter part of the conversation the black-haired young man
had become very impatient. He stared out of the window, and fidgeted,
and evidently longed for the end of the journey. He was very absent;
he would appear to listen--and heard nothing; and he would laugh of a
sudden, evidently with no idea of what he was laughing about.

"Excuse me," said the red-nosed man to the young fellow with the bundle,
rather suddenly; "whom have I the honour to be talking to?"

"Prince Lef Nicolaievitch Muishkin," replied the latter, with perfect
readiness.

"Prince Muishkin? Lef Nicolaievitch? H'm! I don't know, I'm sure! I may
say I have never heard of such a person," said the clerk, thoughtfully.
"At least, the name, I admit, is historical. Karamsin must mention the
family name, of course, in his history--but as an individual--one never
hears of any Prince Muishkin nowadays."

"Of course not," replied the prince; "there are none, except myself.
I believe I am the last and only one. As to my forefathers, they have
always been a poor lot; my own father was a sublieutenant in the army. I
don't know how Mrs. Epanchin comes into the Muishkin family, but she is
descended from the Princess Muishkin, and she, too, is the last of her
line."

"And did you learn science and all that, with your professor over
there?" asked the black-haired passenger.

"Oh yes--I did learn a little, but--"

"I've never learned anything whatever," said the other.

"Oh, but I learned very little, you know!" added the prince, as though
excusing himself. "They could not teach me very much on account of my
illness."

"Do you know the Rogojins?" asked his questioner, abruptly.

"No, I don't--not at all! I hardly know anyone in Russia. Why, is that
your name?"

"Yes, I am Rogojin, Parfen Rogojin."

"Parfen Rogojin? dear me--then don't you belong to those very Rogojins,
perhaps--" began the clerk, with a very perceptible increase of civility
in his tone.

"Yes--those very ones," interrupted Rogojin, impatiently, and with scant
courtesy. I may remark that he had not once taken any notice of the
blotchy-faced passenger, and had hitherto addressed all his remarks
direct to the prince.

"Dear me--is it possible?" observed the clerk, while his face assumed an
expression of great deference and servility--if not of absolute
alarm: "what, a son of that very Semen Rogojin--hereditary honourable
citizen--who died a month or so ago and left two million and a half of
roubles?"

"And how do _you_ know that he left two million and a half of roubles?"
asked Rogojin, disdainfully, and not deigning so much as to look at the
other. "However, it's true enough that my father died a month ago, and
that here am I returning from Pskoff, a month after, with hardly a boot
to my foot. They've treated me like a dog! I've been ill of fever at
Pskoff the whole time, and not a line, nor farthing of money, have I
received from my mother or my confounded brother!"

"And now you'll have a million roubles, at least--goodness gracious me!"
exclaimed the clerk, rubbing his hands.

"Five weeks since, I was just like yourself," continued Rogojin,
addressing the prince, "with nothing but a bundle and the clothes I
wore. I ran away from my father and came to Pskoff to my aunt's house,
where I caved in at once with fever, and he went and died while I was
away. All honour to my respected father's memory--but he uncommonly
nearly killed me, all the same. Give you my word, prince, if I hadn't
cut and run then, when I did, he'd have murdered me like a dog."

"I suppose you angered him somehow?" asked the prince, looking at the
millionaire with considerable curiosity. But though there may have been
something remarkable in the fact that this man was heir to millions of
roubles there was something about him which surprised and interested
the prince more than that. Rogojin, too, seemed to have taken up the
conversation with unusual alacrity it appeared that he was still in a
considerable state of excitement, if not absolutely feverish, and was
in real need of someone to talk to for the mere sake of talking, as
safety-valve to his agitation.

As for his red-nosed neighbour, the latter--since the information as to
the identity of Rogojin--hung over him, seemed to be living on the
honey of his words and in the breath of his nostrils, catching at every
syllable as though it were a pearl of great price.

"Oh, yes; I angered him--I certainly did anger him," replied Rogojin.
"But what puts me out so is my brother. Of course my mother couldn't do
anything--she's too old--and whatever brother Senka says is law for her!
But why couldn't he let me know? He sent a telegram, they say. What's
the good of a telegram? It frightened my aunt so that she sent it back
to the office unopened, and there it's been ever since! It's only thanks
to Konief that I heard at all; he wrote me all about it. He says my
brother cut off the gold tassels from my father's coffin, at night
'because they're worth a lot of money!' says he. Why, I can get him
sent off to Siberia for that alone, if I like; it's sacrilege. Here,
you--scarecrow!" he added, addressing the clerk at his side, "is it
sacrilege or not, by law?"

"Sacrilege, certainly--certainly sacrilege," said the latter.

"And it's Siberia for sacrilege, isn't it?"

"Undoubtedly so; Siberia, of course!"

"They will think that I'm still ill," continued Rogojin to the prince,
"but I sloped off quietly, seedy as I was, took the train and came away.
Aha, brother Senka, you'll have to open your gates and let me in, my
boy! I know he told tales about me to my father--I know that well enough
but I certainly did rile my father about Nastasia Philipovna that's very
sure, and that was my own doing."

"Nastasia Philipovna?" said the clerk, as though trying to think out
something.

"Come, you know nothing about _her_," said Rogojin, impatiently.

"And supposing I do know something?" observed the other, triumphantly.

"Bosh! there are plenty of Nastasia Philipovnas. And what an impertinent
beast you are!" he added angrily. "I thought some creature like you
would hang on to me as soon as I got hold of my money."

"Oh, but I do know, as it happens," said the clerk in an aggravating
manner. "Lebedeff knows all about her. You are pleased to reproach me,
your excellency, but what if I prove that I am right after all? Nastasia
Phillpovna's family name is Barashkoff--I know, you see--and she is a
very well known lady, indeed, and comes of a good family, too. She is
connected with one Totski, Afanasy Ivanovitch, a man of considerable
property, a director of companies, and so on, and a great friend of
General Epanchin, who is interested in the same matters as he is."

"My eyes!" said Rogojin, really surprised at last. "The devil take the
fellow, how does he know that?"

"Why, he knows everything--Lebedeff knows everything! I was a month or
two with Lihachof after his father died, your excellency, and while he
was knocking about--he's in the debtor's prison now--I was with him,
and he couldn't do a thing without Lebedeff; and I got to know Nastasia
Philipovna and several people at that time."

"Nastasia Philipovna? Why, you don't mean to say that she and
Lihachof--" cried Rogojin, turning quite pale.

"No, no, no, no, no! Nothing of the sort, I assure you!" said Lebedeff,
hastily. "Oh dear no, not for the world! Totski's the only man with any
chance there. Oh, no! He takes her to his box at the opera at the French
theatre of an evening, and the officers and people all look at her and
say, 'By Jove, there's the famous Nastasia Philipovna!' but no one ever
gets any further than that, for there is nothing more to say."

"Yes, it's quite true," said Rogojin, frowning gloomily; "so Zaleshoff
told me. I was walking about the Nefsky one fine day, prince, in my
father's old coat, when she suddenly came out of a shop and stepped
into her carriage. I swear I was all of a blaze at once. Then I met
Zaleshoff--looking like a hair-dresser's assistant, got up as fine as I
don't know who, while I looked like a tinker. 'Don't flatter yourself,
my boy,' said he; 'she's not for such as you; she's a princess, she
is, and her name is Nastasia Philipovna Barashkoff, and she lives
with Totski, who wishes to get rid of her because he's growing rather
old--fifty-five or so--and wants to marry a certain beauty, the
loveliest woman in all Petersburg.' And then he told me that I could
see Nastasia Philipovna at the opera-house that evening, if I liked, and
described which was her box. Well, I'd like to see my father allowing
any of us to go to the theatre; he'd sooner have killed us, any day.
However, I went for an hour or so and saw Nastasia Philipovna, and I
never slept a wink all night after. Next morning my father happened to
give me two government loan bonds to sell, worth nearly five thousand
roubles each. 'Sell them,' said he, 'and then take seven thousand five
hundred roubles to the office, give them to the cashier, and bring me
back the rest of the ten thousand, without looking in anywhere on the
way; look sharp, I shall be waiting for you.' Well, I sold the bonds,
but I didn't take the seven thousand roubles to the office; I went
straight to the English shop and chose a pair of earrings, with a
diamond the size of a nut in each. They cost four hundred roubles more
than I had, so I gave my name, and they trusted me. With the earrings
I went at once to Zaleshoff's. 'Come on!' I said, 'come on to Nastasia
Philipovna's,' and off we went without more ado. I tell you I hadn't a
notion of what was about me or before me or below my feet all the way;
I saw nothing whatever. We went straight into her drawing-room, and then
she came out to us.